The Izumo-class multi-purpose destroyer ( Izumo-gata-goei-kan) or 22DDH is a class of de facto aircraft carriers originally ordered to operate as a helicopter carrier constructed for the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF). In late 2018 the class was predesignated as multi-purpose operation destroyers following the announcement that they would operate STOVL jets.[3] The ships of this class are currently the largest surface combatants of the JMSDF, taking over the mantle previously held by the Hyūga-class helicopter destroyers. The lead ship was officially unveiled at Yokohama on 6 August 2013.[4] On December 2018, the Japanese Cabinet gave approval to convert both ships into aircraft carriers capable of operating the F-35B.
The Japanese Ministry of Defense (MOD) first announced plans for the class on 23 November 2009. This ship's primary mission is anti-submarine warfare (ASW) but peacekeeping and disaster relief operations are also being considered.[6]
The ship carries up to 28 aircraft.[7] However, only 7 ASW helicopters and 2 search and rescue (SAR) helicopters are planned for the initial aircraft complement. For other operations, 400 troops and 50 3.5 ton trucks (or equivalent equipment) can also be carried. The flight deck has 5 helicopter landing spots that allow simultaneous landings or take-offs. The ship is equipped with 2 Phalanx CIWS and 2 SeaRAM for its defense.[1] The destroyers of this class were initially intended to replace the two ships of the Shirane class, which were originally scheduled to begin decommissioning in FY2014.[6]

In 2010, Forecast International reported that some design features were intended to support fixed wing aircraft such as the Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey and Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II, although neither the MOD nor the JMSDF have mentioned the possibility of introducing carrier-based fixed-wing aircraft.[8] The ship has neither a "ski-jump" nor a catapult, typical features for launching fixed-wing aircraft.[9] If the Izumo class were to operate fixed-wing aircraft, they would be limited to those capable of STOVL (short take-off, vertical landing) operations.

The construction of the first ship of the class began in 2011 at an IHI Marine United shipyard in Yokohama,[10] with funding totalling 113.9 billion yen ($1.5 billion) being set aside in the fiscal 2010 budget for this purpose.

In December 2017, Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun reported that the Japanese government was considering modifying its Izumo-class helicopter destroyers to operate with roughly 10 F-35B aircraft. Multiple plans are reportedly under consideration, some of which call for US Marine Corps F-35s to use the vessels, but others for Japan to procure its own aircraft.[11][12] The plan quickly raised criticism from China, where government officials reacted negatively and urged Japan to "act cautiously".[13][14]

Japanese Defence Minister Takeshi Iwaya said on 27 November 2018 that Tokyo is considering buying the F-35B short take-off and vertical landing (STOVL) variant of the Lockheed Martin Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) and, as a consequence of this, modifying both Izumo-class helicopter carriers to facilitate F-35B operations.[15]

On May 28 2019, President Donald Trump inspected Kaga, the second ship in the class, during his visit in Japan and supported the country's effort for an active role in the defense and security of the Pacific region. This was the first ever inspection by a U.S. president of a Japanese warship. Trump also stated that Kaga will help defend Japan and America against threats in the region and far beyond.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Izumo-class_multi-purpose_operation_destroyer
